Hi. I'm Christine Dustin. I've been a
competitive swimmer since I was 5 years
old. I've competed at the national and at
the collegiate level. Now I'm a swim
coach and the Fin Fun swim instructor.
Mermaid tails are a super fun way for
kids and adults to play, use their
imagination, build swimming skills, and
get a great workout. But first, let's go
over some important safety tips. Step one: This is for
the kids. Always swim with adult
supervision.
Any time kids are in the water, adults
should be constantly watching to make
sure they're safe.
Step two: Make sure that you are swim
ready. Remember our first video about your
swimming ability. It's very important to
be swim ready certified. If you can't
swim with two legs you aren't ready to
swim like a mermaid. Swim ready
certification is mandatory for mermaid
certification. If you haven't completed
this training yet, please watch this
video now.
Step three: Always put your monofin on while
sitting at the edge of the water. Even
though you're super excited to put it on,
you'll need to wait until you're close
enough to slip into the water.
Trust me. It's a lot easier and safer this way.
Step four:
Only swim as a mermaid in places where
you would normally swim as a human.  If
you aren't comfortable swimming in the
ocean without a tail, don't do it with
a mermaid tail on. If you can't swim in
the deep end without a tail,
don't do it with a mermaid tail on. If
you normally stay close to the edge or
the wall without your tail, stay close to
the edge or wall with your tail on.
Step five:
If for any reason you need to get out of
your tail quickly, you can kick it off
while swimming. First wiggle your feet
out of the tail. You will usually pull
one foot out first and then use that
foot to push on the fin to get the other
foot out. Then pull your tail down and
swim out of your tail.
Step six: Kids you don't have gills!
Remember your upper body is still human
so you'll need to breathe the same as
you normally do when swimming. Don't
hold your breath
and don't dive too deep. Make sure you're
near the surface so you can breathe when
you need to breathe. A good tip is to
roll over onto your back
and float when you need to rest, and then
just breathe normally. Step seven: When
you show up to the pool with your pretty
tail on you're definitely going to make
a splash. But make sure you're
considerate of the other swimmers
there. Your monofin is going to make
you swim faster so make sure to watch
where you're going. A good tip is if
you're on your back make sure you have
your hands above your head. And if you're
on your front make sure you also have
your hand in front of you and that
you're watching where you're going. We
hope all the little mermaids out there
have fun and swim safe. Make sure to watch
our other Fin Fun safety videos for more
instructions. Thanks for watching!